Traditional way of storing database - File System (File Storage)
Why storing data using File Storage is bad? 
  - File storage is not efficient for storing large amount of data
  - It is difficult to retrieve data from file storage
  - It is difficult to maintain data integrity and consistency in file storage
  - It is difficult to share data between different applications in file storage
  - Concurrency issues can arise when multiple users try to access the same file storage

Databases will give us organized way to store and retrieve data easily
Two types of Databases -> RDBMS(SQL)(Relational Database management system), Nosql

DBMS is a layer or interface which allows us to interact with the database. It provides a way to create, read, update and delete data in the database. 
It also provides a way to manage the database and ensure data integrity and consistency.
RDBMS is a type of DBMS that uses a relational model to store data. 
It organizes data into tables (also called relations) which consist of rows and columns. 
Each table has a primary key which uniquely identifies each row in the table.

SQL - Structured Query Language is a standard language for managing and manipulating relational databases. It is used to create, read, update and delete data in the database. 
It is the language standard on the language itself and is used by most RDBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL Server etc.

RDBMS systems are ACID compliant which means they ensure Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation and Durability of data.
- Atomicity: ensures that a transaction is treated as a single unit of work, which either
completes entirely or does not complete at all.
- Consistency: ensures that a transaction brings the database from one valid state to another valid state
- Isolation: ensures that concurrent transactions do not interfere with each other
- Durability: ensures that once a transaction is committed, it will remain so, even in the event of power loss, crashes, or errors.

Nosql don't follow sql and every nosql data based store data in different way. 
Example MongoDb store data in document format, Redis store data in key-value format, Cassandra store data in column-family format etc.


Database server runs on local machine port: 3306 for MySQL  : localhost:3306?user=root&password=1234
To run my sql on console command : mysql -u root -p


CREATE DATABASE database_name;  // to create a database
USE database_name; // to use a database
CREATE TABLE table_name (
    column1 datatype,
    column2 datatype,
    column3 datatype,
   .....
);

CREATE TABLE users (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
    name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    password VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

